The Handy Objects Library 1.0 was originally created by Scottish Wings (formerly the artist know as FlybyGuy) on the 10th September 2014. 

+++++ THE LATEST UPDATE IS 7.70 +++++

++ This library and all the objects included are for personal use only and have been provided free of charge by my good self to enhance your overall enjoyment within the X-Plane community. Please do not use any of the objects or texture files in any commercial context or outside the realms of X-Plane.++

++ Feel free to use the objects in any of your own scenery packages or those you share, and all I would ask is that you give me a wee mention. I would also very much appreciate if you would take the time to use the review section voting stars, like button or send me some feedback via the comments section. 

++ PLEASE NOTE: "One or more textures on these 3D-models have been created with images from textures.com (formerly CGTextures.com), and these images may not be redistributed by default. Please visit www.textures.com for more information."  In addition, textures from other sites such as Texturemate.com, Mayang.com and Dreamstime.com have also been used in the creation of this library and please refer to their websites for further information on the rules for distribution of their material (I have been informed by the Dreamstime team that I am allowed to share the Dreamstime images under the Royalty Free license, which menas no commercial usage is allowed and items cannot be used separately). As a general point, this is the case for all items, so IN ALL CASES, textures can only be used in conjunction with their respective object files in the bundle provided and cannot be redistributed or used individually.++

***To use these objects, you can either use Overlay Editor (OE) or World Editor (WED) to add to scenery and they should also work in Windows, MAC OS and LINUX platforms. In the resepective OE or WED library preview pane look for Handy Objects and once you have done this, locate the object you require.  You will be able to view the object and then add it to the scenery pack as you wish.  If you are using a string, remember to set the distance required, and if you are trying to make a continuous line such as a fence, the distance should be set to the width of the object.***

***Please also note that any objects with the suffix SPD are designed to be used with the Sea Plane Dock Object as they are raised slightly to sit on the dock.***

***For many of the ships and rigs, you can place objects on them by Ticking MSL in WED and adjusting the MSL to the required height***. The relative heights are as follows:

Oil supply boats, dive support vessel and and anchor handlers main deck - 1.35m, Bridge - 12.25m

Jack up drill rig main deck  - 35m, Pipe Deck - 40m

Semi sub on tow main deck - 39.5m, Bridge - 48.5m

Semi sub on location main deck - 17.77m, Bridge - 27.77m

Fishing boat main deck - 1.65m, Bridge - 4.65m


*** I really hope you find my library useful as I have had great fun creating it and all suggestions and ideas for new objects always welcome***


UPDATE HISTORY:

7.70 updated 1st June 2019 with drill rigs - semi subs and a jack up, anchor handling ships, articulated lorry trailers, NUI with no helideck, fuel cabin, storage box, offshore chemical tanks, and drill pipe racks. Also modified yellow oil supply boat and blue and yellow skips. 

7.60 updated 28th April 2019 with windmill water pump, added wakes to small fishing boats, generator II, III & IV, and ice cream carts. Added some additional object groups to library.txt file.

7.50 updated 10th April 2019 with ferris wheel, circus tent, articulated lorries no smoke, merry go round, pirate ride, flying chair ride, entrance arch and circus flags. Library.txt file updated to remove further error.

7.41 updated 7th April 2019, library.txt errors fixed. No aditional files added.

7.40 updated 6th April 2019 with fishing boats, dive support vessels, NUI complex and a few other objects modified. e.g wakes added to some ships, textures modified, NUI cranes modified.

7.30 updated 30th March 2019 with sand filled wheel barrow, cement mixer, bulk carrier ships, chimney, various coloured VW Campers.

7.20 updated 23rd March 2019 to include a variety of signal square objects.

7.10 updated to fix a few case errors that were causeing issues for a few folks. Also added, small harbour lighthouse, yellow and black oil supply boat, telecom tower and a yellow tire.  Also added Sea_Plane_Dock_VII library text, was missing.  Fixed some view issues in OE with afew of the horses.

7.00 updated 2nd February 2019 with anemometer II, articulated lorry and trailors, modified ATVs (with new tow hooks, one animated with rider for use with Marginal's Ground Routes plugin), snow covered soft ball field, brown bear, various bushes, byres (aka farm buildings), clubhouse 8,  various dirt paths and roads (.lin), old runway (.lin), rough ground (.pol), farm houses, fuel signs, fuel tank, gorse, SM Hanger 23 and 24, lighthouse III, metal gate double - one side, nettles, outhouse II, radio mast, ride on mower with operator animated for use with Marginal's Ground Routes plugin, offshore wind turbine with platform, shed 9, small circular helipad, raised, cottage and tractor with roof and operator animated for use with Marginal's Ground Routes plugin. Various msall fixes.

6.91 updated 20th September with S-92 CHC, shed 8 open & closed, modifed S-92 Bristow.

6.90 updated 29th September 2018 with wooden posts, single carpark security gates, clubhouse 7, electric meter, Huskys, outhouse, Piper Cherokee with engine cover, ramp fire extinguisher with lance, runway end marker, security hut II, telegraph pole with light, tractors, traffic cones with MIRL and taxi lights

6.80 updated 11th April 2018 with airfield signs, anemometers, box trailer, clubhouse 5 & 6, disabled sign for ground, fox, tall electric fence facade, tall gate for electric fence, greylag geese, hangar tower, Highland cows, inflatable speed boat army, lightship, updated microlites and animated microlites, animated parasails with motor boats, security office, updated shipping bouys and strings, visitor centre, canoe with man, canoe with man and woman, lighthouse with helideck III and orange windsocks.

6.70 updated 3rd March 2018 with chalk rocks, animated fishing boats, flag pole, fuel station and vent, golf flags and tee box, helicopter H, metal gate with cattle grid, red/green MIRL lights (including strings), plauque, reactor domes, shed 7, hangers 19, 20, 21, 22, warehouses I and II,  spot light and street light II, triangular gate, animated submarine, white brick walls and chalk and darker grass ground texture.

6.60 updated 10th February 2018 with, fire bucket LOD fixed, brick wall 1 & 2, clubhouse 4, helicopter hotspot 5, propellor, runway direction T, shed 6 (open & closed) hangers 16, 17 & 18 (open and closed) and a toilet block.

6.50 updated 22nd January 2018 with bluebells .for file, grass field, ploughed field, wheat field and cut wheat field ground textures, SM Hanger No.15, open, closed and part open, green static caravan (with and without smoke) and darkened texture in blue one, and 2 land fill piles.

6.41 updated 14th January 2018 with Fireweed (.for files), 0.5 and 1.0 m spacing. Permission Text Note conditions updated.

6.4 updated 13th January 2018 with, various flora and fauna .for facades (daffodils, ferns,heather and thistles, mixed flowers, bushes, various grasses, sunflowers, poppys, palm oil trees, banana trees, foxgloves) and submarine LOD distance fixed. Thanks to all the Dreamstime contributors for use of their photos.

6.3 updated 6th January 2018... Happy New Year!.  Items added, Runway closed lights, snow mobiles, taxiway closed barriers, airport barricade various Twotters and thanks to William T for the use of his model. ATV texture convrted back to .png, handyobjects1 texture updated.

6.2 updated 26th October 2017 with FOD bin, rubbish skips, large camo army tent, S-76 Red, S-92 Bristow, Brunei Shell, AW-159 (Army & Navy), hand carts with and without baggage, hold alls, fire station, white cross & yellow hotspots, SM Hangers 11, 12, 13 & 14, offices I & II, terminal, workshops I & II and ice bergs. Fixed texture issue with oil supply boats and tents. Handyobjects textures converted back to .png due to missing transparent surfaces when in .dds mode. Not sure the reason, so for now will leave as .png. (original SketchUp S-76, S-92 & AW-159 models courtesy of Mandun & William T and Highland Pony modified by Hans_Petter). Again, big thanks to all the modelers!

6.1 updated 19th August 2017 with donkeys, additional horse and pony, pedestrian underpass, large hanger (SM Hanger 10), Piper Cherokees, Cessna 172Rs, tents & tower crane.(original SketchUp Cessna & Piper models courtesy of Pavel Vanicek & SchreiberBike, and horse and pony modified by Hans_Petter). Big thanks to the modelers!

6.0 updaed 19th May 2017 with road tunnel III (with and with out entrance sign), wooden barrels, portacabins with dark windows II & III, bucket and mop, wet floor sign, propane heater and cylinder, fuel sample bottles, metal wheel chocks, yellow fire hydrants, Sikorsky S-92s and 'A' to 'G' obejcts further optimised, untextured surfaces removed, triangles further reduced.

5.90 updated 4th May 2017 (Star Wars day), updated with wheel barrows - upside down and on side, Shell drum on side, drum rack, empty drum rack, brown wheelie bin, wide double garden shed with base, missing great horned owl texture added, all G to Z objects optimised, thousands of triangles removed and library size reduced by 53MB. TILTED and LOD attribites added to all objects where relevant.

5.81 updated 7th January 2017.  All png texture files converted to dds.

5.8 updated 6th January 2017 with a great horned owl, bicycle stands and modern bus stops. Screenshots added as a .pdf file.

5.7 updated 20th November with seaplane dock with red carpet, oil storage tanks on plynth and black variation, radio arial, clubhouse 'C' sign, low grass lines, house IV, hanger 9, red roofed carpark cover and brick BBQ pits.

5.6 updated, 28th October with Nissen huts (4), fire station & control tower, lighthouse with buildings, sheds 2, 3, 4, 5, SMHanger7, SMHanger8, terminal 1, 2 (with and without wall), 3, 4, cardboard box stack, portaloo multicoloured, clubhouse modified with smoke and lights, clubhouse_2, clubhouse_3, animated and modified crop duster loader, house 1, 2, 3, lighthouse 2, flammable cupboard open 1, 2, food trough with water, seaplane dock texture updated, oil supply boat LODs increased to 5000m, picnic rug retextured, the gardenshed texture darkened, other portaloos optimised, remainder of 'C' objects optimised and all 'D','E' and 'F' objects optimised.

5.5 updated 18th October with additional large and small horses and re sized all horses, additional sheep, 3D herons & seagulls, safety barriers, football, pallets and microlites. 

5.4 updated 20th August with small fishing boats, hop up steps, H beams, fire hose reel, banana boats, upgraded NUI, oil rig life boat (original SketchUp lifeboat model courtesy of Laurentiu), oil tankers (original SketchUp oil tanker model courtesy of PM3D), NUI mono tower, NUI lite, NUI SPAR, remote flare and FPSOs (original SketchUp FPSO model courtesy of Uilian S.). Big thanks to the modelers!

5.3 updated 5th July with street light with ad board, runway controller caravans, concrete circles, fire trainer II, helicopter hotspot IV, runway closure crosses (2), curved path light, taxiway closure cross, red and white 10m windsock no light, taxi line drawing template, 10m open sliding bar gate, large rusty pipes, zebra crossing with no lights, ramp fire extinguisher raised to sit on helipad, ramp fire extinguisher, grit container, triangular traffic cone, red windsock with no lights all rasied to sit on hospital helipad, ferry ramps with additional concrete base, harbour pillars, single grey walkway barrier, oil supply boats, clutter objects for oil supply boats (generator, IBC, ISO tanks, shipping containers) and horse boxes and horse raised to go inside.  A number of 'C' objects optimsed and a number of textures modified to darken colours.


5.2 updated 31st May with car parking lines, beer keg, electrical switch boxes, caravans with different coloured awnings, caravan with controler sign, parking meter, bus stops with smoked glass, and all "B" objects now optimised to reduce triangle counts (generally a 5 to 50% improvement) and LOD and TILTED atributes added where relevant.

5.1 updated 21st May with additional telegraph poles with no ends and marker balls, including strings to allow for better long line creation, fence facades and 40ft containers. Marquee textures modified and all "A" objects now optimised to reduce triangle counts (generally a 5 to 50% improvement) and LOD and TILTED atributes added where relevant.

5.0 updated 6th May with marquees, triangular traffic cones, boulders and boulder groynes, geysers, grass line facades, pylons and mole hills. One or two objects optimised to reduce triangle counts.

4.9 updated 26th April with globe path lights, lifebouys, beach groynes, Robinson R22s, large cow II, mobile phone tree mast, sewage clarifier and sewage aeration basin.

4.8 updated 13th April with single car park barriers, polar bear, seals, bison, sliding gates,key pad, gate mnotor, square ground helipad, barbed wire fences II, windsock no lights, general update of texture files to give more definition. 

4.7 updated 19th March with a large wheeled fire extinguisher created by brosenguy, wheel clamp, wheel clamp warning sign, spiral street light, SCUBA Tanks and trolley, litter bins, snow drifts, sand & earth piles, HESCO barriers, cross barrier, inflatable speedboats, caribou, penguins, tree trunk picnic table.

4.6 updated 7th February with portable generators, lube oil containers and chinese lanterns.

4.5 updated 26th January with ATVs, helix wind turbine, refreshed traffic cones and added cone pair with bar, trampoline, curved open ended hanger and carpark cover.

4.4 updated 20th Jaunuary 2016 with objects made by leovox01, engine hoist, tool chest, tool chest open and work platfirm.  Many thanks to him for allowing me to include these in the library.

4.3 updated 15th January 2016 with checkered hut, carpark security barriers, football pitch and stadium, wind socks, picnic tables, airport signs, small transformers, raised and new plant pots and curved bollard.

4.2 updated 27th November 2015 with ferry ramp, harbour walls, ground helipads, parasols and airboats. Fixed a file naming error with the Wooden Bumper Barrier String. 20,000 downloads!!! 

4.1 updated 21st November 2015, with traffic cone with taxi light, whiteboard, trestle table, paddle boats, pigs and runway marker cones.

4.0 updated 31st October 2015, with London taxi, courtesy shuttle, gazebos, large ground radome, green curved hangers (14 X 20m, 16 x 20m & 18 x 22.5m), wind turbine, wind turbine II and, green portaloo, dome greenhouse, helipad landing light, helipad marking with lights. Fixed large wind turbines, parafoil kites, anemometers, advertising blimps, wind turbine III and large weather vane which were still not aligned with the wind due to an error that occured during the upload of 3.9. Some small texture fixes made to ride on mower trailer, mower with trailer, lawn mower and camper van. Adjusted height of anticollision lights with no poles as the were all 1m too short.

3.9 updated 13th September 2015 with capsizsed motor boats, large, small and stand flags (Shell, Aberdeen, St Andrews, Lion Rampant, Union Jack, China, Azores, Portugal, EU, DHL), football goals (large and small), VW camper, pickup truck, show jumping fences, vertical wooden fences, diagonal wooden fences, bollards, large concrete pipes, 3D animals (horse, cow, sheep, kangaroo), tennis court with no surround, carpark log barrier, wooden bumper barrier, howitzer and also a number of objects that track the wind modified so that they will follow the wind direction as is and no further adjustment required in WED or OE, these include, advertsing blimps, anemometers, large weather vane, large wind turbines and parafoil kites. 

3.8 updated 26th July 2015 with ornate street light, fire bucket, water well, welcome sign, round baler, dome tent, shipping container, camper van, caravan, skate park ramp, paddling pool, picnic rug, and camping table & chairs.

3.7 updated 6th July 2015, fence lights, tour bus, city bus, mini bus, double decker bus, minivan, Coach Trip tour bus, delivery van, anti collsion lights (all 99 of them), London bus, and powered light tower.

3.6 updated 12th June 2015 with pig shelter, corrugated shed, animal feeders, buckrakes, submarine, substation transformer, fountains, advertising blimps, parafoil kites, orange and blue wheelie bins, small and large wind turbines and also removed a couple of rogue spaces that were effecting the stationary trailer and also the stationary trailer II objects, fixed flickering texture in large tool kits, wheelie bins and buckrakes.

3.5 updated 17th May 2015 with lawn mower, covered walkway with blue roof, large weather vane, ride on mower with accessories (roller, trailer, snow plough, grass collector)and segway.

3.4 updated 3rd May 2015 with logs, rotary drier, greenhouse (with clutter items), canoe rack, helicopter hotspot III and glass fence. In addition this text file was upated with permission info regarding object and texture usage.

3.3 updated 25th April 2015 with tires and tire tie down, half barrel runway marker, segmented circle markers, glider trailers, helicopter hot spots, guard watch tower, golf driving range, updated texure in snow piles, car park ticket machine, car park vending machine, canoe, tubular barrier, piles, motor boat and motor boat trailer.

3.2 updated 14th April 2015 with lighthouses with helidecks, Big Water Of Fleet Viaduct, camp fires, satellite dish, runway marker barrels, telegraph poles, runway marker tire and I also fixed the library naming issue with the bus stop benches.

3.1 updated 5th April 2015 with double and multiple playground swings, roundabout, seesaw, chute, sandpit, bouncy castle and runway markers.

3.0 updated 3rd April 2015 with more birds (albatross, cormorant, gannet I & II, heron I & II, puffin, tern), lighthouse, shipping buoy (angle, II both red and green), shipping cans and nuns, seaplane dock steps, red carpet, patio table and chairs, playground swing, tire swing. 

2.9 updated 21st March 2015 with  bleachers, baseball fields, chainline fence, barbed wire fence, short chain link fence, flatbed skip, small and large sports dugouts, tennis court, umpire chair, worksite fence, softball field, rugby union pitch, basketball court & hoops, shipping buoy, fish farm, courtesy buggies, covered walkways, glass walkway, glass bus stop, bus stop benches and sea birds (seagull I, II, III, pelican I, II, III). Flickering texture in Grit Continer, 200 litre drums and drum pumps fixed.

2.8 updated 28th February 2015 with large tool kit, vintage petrol pump, sea plane dock & clutter items, scoffold hop up, trailer II and stone bridges.

2.7 updated 22nd February with American fire hydrant, car park height barrier, offshore survival capsule, triple vintage street light, anemometer with wind vane, speed bumps and portaloo. In addition NUI deck fixed to make H a " hard" surface, and whole top deck of hospital helipad also made "hard". File names updated in library.txt file to avoid LINUX conflict.

2.6 updated 7th February 2015 with flower pots, vintage light with hanging baskets, hanging baskets, snow piles, 2 additional garden sheds, vision technician tool kit, small patio table, cable reels, small water pipes, hospital helipad, double street light. In addition, traffic cone stack, topsoil piles, garden shed and dustbin textures updated to fix flickering. 

2.5 updated 30th January 2015 with ladders, step ladders and painting items.  Also removed version number from folder description.

2.4 updated 28th January 2015 with grey wheelie bin, round helipad, updated vintage street light, updated pathway marker, NUI, fueling point cover, zebra crossing, large water pipes, drum mover and drain covers.

2.3 updated 11th January 2015 with anemometer, road marker, wooden block path markers, workman rest area, road works light, cooler boxes, wooden benches, crash barriers I & II, marker poles, aircraft batteries, no parking cones, marker stones, rainwater barrels, traffic cones with and withouth lights, radome, snow poles, panel fences, pathway lights, road and rail tunnels, baggage trolley tug, poly tunnel, large storage tank, security cameras, oil storage tank, railway sleepers, public address speakers, roadside markers, aircraft jacks, vertical panel barricades, 200 litre drums, drum pumps, ISO tanks, helipad, ramp fire extinguisher, vintage street light, additional SM3 hangers, black and white walkway barriers and green and blue roofed bus stops.

2.2 updated 20th December with life raft, pedestrian overpass, traffic barrel, delineator posts, jersey barrier, taxiway marker, pressure washer, storage tank and jerrycans.

2.1 updated 14th December with, closed cantilever tool box, sun loungers, safety shower, crop duster loader, fire extinguisher and trolley, suitcases, picket fencing, white wooden fence, welding set, additional wheel chocks, New Orleans barricade, air compressor, air driven transfer pump, gas BBQ, kettle BBQ, additional baggage trolley with cases, patio heater, switch back ramp, gas bottles, Shell petrol station and storage boxes.

2.0 updated 27th October is exactly the same as 1.10 as far as content goes, only the revision number has been changed to avoid confusion.

1.10 updated 26th October with hang glider, fire trainer, cantilever tool box, top dressing bins and soil piles, shed, deck chairs, tall hedge and two modified hanger objects (SM3_narrow and SM4_long).  In addition, the correct object has now been referenced in the hedge_wide.str file.

1.9 updated 5th October with double metal gate, red/white barrier, observatory, storage silo, grave stones, security hut and portacabin with darker windows. Internal faces also removed from hedge and boundary wall objects.

1.8 updated 28th September with wheel chocks, electric tug and food trough objects.

1.7 updated 23rd September with park bench and wheelbarrow objects.

1.6 updated 20th September with bus stop, IBC, walkway barrier and boundary wall objects.

1.5 updated 14th September with bottled water cooler object.

1.4 updated 14th September with garden shed and dust bin objects.

1.3 updated 13th September with hedge and fence strings.

1.2 updated 13th September with air drop crate objects.

1.1 updated 11th September with hedge and fire hydrant objects.




